Hi, my name is Matthew Tonks. Throughout my data journey, I realized that the more I succeed with technology, the less I need to rely on it. This created the opportunity to ask better questions and to have the courage to search for the answers when I do not have them.

I started at Chapman as a Computer Science major with the typical aspirations of building revolutionary applications or experiences. The first two years of increasingly difficult projects taught me something invaluable. "I can persevere no matter the challenge". What I did not realize was that this was the start of my professional journey.

My internship at Melissa Data was my first real glimpse at the professional world of data. I recall the excitement of working on problems that affect their quality. Whether it was comparing multiple vendors' data, improving the quality of their data, or creating monitoring scripts to validate API services. What I missed was a deeper story: how data quality issues could derail entire business processes and how decisions that seemed to be inconsequential can ripple through the entire organization.

My first major university project gave me the chance to create something meaningful. I was creating a way to help people make better financial decisions. I extracted and cleaned thousands of property listings, built predictive models, and identified investments with returns over 15% above market average. This experience taught me about the weight of responsibility that comes with creating insights that can influence major decisions. With great data comes great responsibility. People have to trust your analysis since it could lead to a life-changing or life-ruining decision.

My first role out of college was at a small consulting firm, where these experiences alone could not prepare me for the realities of client work. My manager's tendency to "oversell" my skillset to clients led to an environment where any given day could lead to drowning under their decisions. I remember late nights with my coworkers, questioning if I was cut out for the field while building out my first scalable file processing platform. Over time, I realized that this was the best environment to start to bridge the gap between technical skills and business knowledge. Training on our tools deepened this growth by showing me a well-designed data ecosystem. Everything had its place, every step could be explained, and every decision was traceable. When all the pieces work together and the knowledge is well documented, the system can create insights that can be trusted, and decisions can be made confidently.

After seeing the full picture of a complete data system, I was able to identify my limitations, and choosing to pursue graduate school was exactly how I was going to overcome them. I am doing this to develop strategic thinking skills that I knew I was missing. I want to learn how to identify high-impact problems by aligning technical solutions to business strategy. With that, then be able to improve my communication skills to express the value of the insights from data to any stakeholder.

This journey has shown me that the best data professionals bridge technical capability with strategic thinking. I'm excited to bring both my technical foundation and business perspective to help turn data into a competitive advantage.